reactjs context

## React Context

- What is React context:
    - React context allows to pass down and use data in other component without using props.
    - React context is primarily used to share data that are required by many components at different nesting levels.
        - such as: Theme data, User Login data, locale, language etc
    - It can be thought as equivalent of global variable for React components.
- What problems does React context solve:
    - React context helps to avoid the props drilling problem.
    - Props Drilling:
        - It is a term to describe when props are pass down to a nested component through the components that don't need it.
    - By using React context, passing props through intermediate element can be avoided.
- How to use React context:
    - Create a context using `createContext` method
    - Use the created context and wrap a context provider to the component tree.
    - Put values into the context using `value` prop.
    - Read the value within any component by using the context consumer or using `useContext` hook.
    - To update a value pass a function down through the context to allow consumers to update the context
- React context caveats:
    - Updating value of the React context props are not recommended for performance reasons.
    - If any object is passed down with React context and a value changes on it, all of the consumers will be updated
        - This might cause the performance issue with a large app
        - Also with the apps that needs large number of states to be updated with a  lot of component in component tree.
        - This is why it is used with data that does not needs to be update often.

id: 2d111736613e4edab03fb45a608acf00
parent_id: d04773a9c52b413dbefbc28c1e424bb9
created_time: 2022-09-23T19:13:52.909Z
updated_time: 2022-09-27T23:08:11.780Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 25.59409470
longitude: 85.13756450
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2022-09-23T19:13:52.909Z
user_updated_time: 2022-09-27T23:08:11.780Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
share_id: 
conflict_original_id: 
master_key_id: 
type_: 1