Unit2.

- [1. Success and Failure of projects](#1-success-and-failure-of-projects)
  - [1.1  Factors in Succssfull project:](#11-factors-in-succssfull-project)
  - [1.2 Factors in Challanged Projects:](#12-factors-in-challanged-projects)
  - [1.3 Factors in Failed project](#13-factors-in-failed-project)
- [2. Monitoring and Evaluation](#2-monitoring-and-evaluation)
  - [2. 1 Monitoring](#2-1-monitoring)
  - [2.2 Evaluation](#22-evaluation)
- [3. Project Portfolio  Management](#3-project-portfolio-management)
  - [3.1 Obejctives of Project Portfolio Management](#31-obejctives-of-project-portfolio-management)
  - [3.2 Benifits of Project Portofolio Management](#32-benifits-of-project-portofolio-management)
- [4 Tools used for Project Portfolio Management](#4-tools-used-for-project-portfolio-management)
- [5. The Five quiestion Model](#5-the-five-quiestion-model)
- [6. Strategic Assassement (Programme Management)](#6-strategic-assassement-programme-management)
- [7. Techincal Assessment](#7-techincal-assessment)
  - [7.1 Cost-Benifit Analysis](#71-cost-benifit-analysis)
    - [7.1.1 Category of Cost](#711-category-of-cost)
    - [7.1.2 Category of Benifits](#712-category-of-benifits)
  - [7.2 Cash Flow Forecasting](#72-cash-flow-forecasting)
  - [7.3 Cost Benifits Evaluation Technique](#73-cost-benifits-evaluation-technique)
- [8. Risk Evaluation](#8-risk-evaluation)
- [9. Programs, Program Management, Program Managers](#9-programs-program-management-program-managers)
  - [9.1 Program](#91-program)
  - [9.2 Program Managers](#92-program-managers)
  - [9.3 Program Management](#93-program-management)
- [10. Benifit Management](#10-benifit-management)
- [11. SDLC Lifecycle](#11-sdlc-lifecycle)


<br/>

### 1. Success and Failure of projects
#### 1.1  Factors in Succssfull project:
+ User Involvemnt
+ Executive Management Support
+ Clear SRS
+ Proper Planning
+ Realistic Expectation
+ `Another  prespective`
  + `Good plannig`
  + `Clear Resopnsibility and Acoountability`
  + `Schedule Control`

<br/>

#### 1.2 Factors in Challanged Projects:
+ Lack of user input
+ Incomplete requirement & specification
+ Chaging requirement and specification
+ Lack of excutive support
+ Technical Incompetence

<br/>

#### 1.3 Factors in Failed project
+ Imcomplete requirement
+ Lack of user involvement
+ Lack of resources
+ Unrealistic Expectations
+ Lack of planning
+ Lack of IT management
+ No nned to the software
+ CHanging requirement & specification

<br/>

### 2. Monitoring and Evaluation

#### 2. 1 Monitoring
+ Process of gathering information from project & programmers for 4 main purpose:
+ Purpose:  
  + Learn and improve practices and activities in future.
  + Accountability of resource used and result obtained.
  + Take informed decision on the future of the initiative.
  + Promote empowerment of benificiers of intiatove.
+ It is recurring task and allos experince, process and results to be documneted.

<br/>

#### 2.2 Evaluation
+ It is the process of accessing as systematically and objectively as possible.
+ It usages daata and information that helps in making informed stratigic decision.
+ It helps to draw the following conclusion:
  + Relevance
  + Effictiveness
  + Efficiency
  + Impact
  + Sustanability

<br/>

### 3. Project Portfolio  Management
+ When organization runs many project, it is vital to manage project portfolio.
+ This helps organization in categorizing th project and aligining corganizational goals.
+ PPM is the process of helping organization in gaining more information about the project
+ And use this information to sort put project based on some citeria.

<br/>

#### 3.1 Obejctives of Project Portfolio Management
+ The need to create a descriptive document, which contains vital information 
  + Name of project
  + Estimated timeframe
  + cost
  + and buisness objective
+ The project needs to be evaluated on regular basis to enusre that project is meeting its target
+ Selection of team players, who will work towars acheiving the pojrct's obejctive.

<br/>

#### 3.2 Benifits of Project Portofolio Management
+ Greater adaptability towards change
+ Constant review and cloes monitoring brings higer retrun
+ Advantage over other compititor
+ Identification of dependencies eliminates some inefficiencies.
+ Helps in completing the targers efficiently and on time.
+ Brings out changes to the origanization and creates flexible structure.

<br/>


### 4 Tools used for Project Portfolio Management
+ Types:
  + `Heuristic Model`
  + `Scoring Technique`
  + `Visual or Mapping Technique`
+ Features
  + `Systematic model for evaluation`
  + `Cost and benifit analysis`
  + `Progress report`
  + `Access of imformation`
  + `Commiunication machenism`

<br/>


### 5. The Five quiestion Model
+ Are we investing in right thing?
+ How well are we executing?
+ Can we absorb all the changes?
+ Are we realizing promised benifits?
+ Are we ouptiming our capacity.

<br/>


### 6. Strategic Assassement (Programme Management)
+  Individual Projects are seen as component of Programme.
+  Programme is collection of project that contibute to same overall orgnizational goal.
+  Effective programme management is requied.
+  For sucess, the statrgic assessment clearly define the goal of organization.
+  Software  system is used to carry out these assessment.
+  THe propose project is evaluated as to how it will affect ongoing projects.

<br/>

### 7. Techincal Assessment

#### 7.1 Cost-Benifit Analysis
+ It is an economic assessment of system.
+ It is carried out by comparing the expected cost of development & operation with the benifits of having it in place.
+ This assessment is based on whether the estimated cost are excedded by estimated income and other benifits.
+ It consists of two steps:
  + Identifying and estimating all the cost and benifits of project and operation.
  + Expressing the cost and benifit in terms of common units.

<br/>

#### 7.1.1 Category of Cost
1. `Developmental Cost` :Inlcudes saliries, other emplyment cost, all ssociated cost  
2. `Setup Cost` : Includes
  + Cost of putting the system into place.
  + Cost of hardware
  + Cost of file convrsion, requirement and training the staff
3. `Operational Cost` : Cost of operating the system once it is installed

<br/>

#### 7.1.2 Category of Benifits
1. `Direct Benifits`
   + These accured directly from operation of proposed system.
   + For example, reduction in slairies through inroduction of computes.
2. `Assessable Indirect Benifits`
   + These are secondary benifits 
   + Such as increased accuracy throgu introduction of more user-friendly screens.
3. `Intangible Benifits`
   + Longer term benifits
   + Considered difficult to quantify.

<br/>

#### 7.2 Cash Flow Forecasting
+ A cash flow forcast indicates when expenditure and income takes place.
+ When estimating futer cah flow, the effects of inflation are ignored.
+ If expenditure is increased due to inflation, it is likely that incomes proportionally.
+  Case flow takes place at the end of the each year.

<br/>

#### 7.3 Cost Benifits Evaluation Technique
1. `Net Profit`: Deiiference between total cost and total income, over the life of project.
2. `Paybak Period`: Time taken to break even or payback intial investement.
+ Methods:
3. `Return on Investement`
  + (Average annual profit/Total Investement)*100
  + Compares the net profibility of investement.
  + Disadvanteges: 
    + Do not take ccount of cash flow
    + Comapres the rate of return on current interest retes
4. ` Net Profit Value (NPV)`
  + NPV = sum(PV)
  + PV(t) = value in year t(1+r)/exp(t) 
  + Represent value of any future cash flow
  + Advantage is that is takes Cahs flow into account and chage in iterest rates.
5. `Internal Rate of return`
  + Provides profit measusre as percentage that is directly comparable to interest rates.
  + Calculated as percentage discount rate that would produce an NPV of zero.

<br/>

### 8. Risk Evaluation
+ Projects are planned based on estimation and forcasts.
+ Theres estimation always have uncertinites and are the basis or risk.
+ Risk evaluation is the determination of quantitative and qualitative value of risk.
+ Ris assessment involves measurig the probabilty that risk will become a reatily.
+ Common Phases of risk evaluation:
  1. `Risk Identification`
  2. `Categrize and group risk`
  3. `Qualify risk` 
  4. `Determine risk response`
  5. `Documentation of risk`
  6. `Risk identification and ranking`
  7. `Risk and net present value` - Higher discount rate to calculate npv
  8. `Cost benifit analysis`

<br/>

### 9. Programs, Program Management, Program Managers

#### 9.1 Program
+ Program are group of related proejcts & ongoing operations
+ It is managed in such a way to obtain benifit and control over prjects
+ That caanot be obtained when managed projects individually.

<br/>

#### 9.2 Program Managers
+ Those who oversees and provide direction & guidance to managers of component projects.
+ They coordinated between different project managers to acheive rewuired target.
+ Essesntial responsisbilities are:
  + Identification
  + Realization
  + Monitoring &
  + Control  iterdependence of each projects.
+ They need much more expertise, risk & change manangement than prject managers.

<br/>

#### 9.3 Program Management
+ It is the link between portfolio of strategic initiative and project management skills.
+ Significant advantages of defining program in support of an obejctive, then
+ Dividing them into component projects
+ This ensures better control, focus and realization in oranizational staratigies.

<br/>

### 10. Benifit Management
+ It is the prcess of 
  + Identification
  + Definition
  + Planning 
  + Tackling &
  + Realization of business benifits.
+ It is an iterative process with 5 main steps/phases.
+ Phases of Benifit Management
  + `Define Benifit Mnagement plan`
    + How benifits are managed
    + Sets out policies for role & responsiblities,KIP etc.
  + `Identify and structure benifit`
    + Requirements are taken from sources such as stake holder.
    + Each benifits are dcoumented.
    + Relationship btween requirement, output adn cacheivement are mapped.
  + `Plan benfit and realisation`
    + Identify current performance, so that cahnges can be amde/
    + Illustrates timeline and milestone.
  + `Implement Changes`
    + Changes are made in order to achecive required benifits.
  + `Realise Benifits`
    + Benifits are realised by making changes.
    + The project manager ensures that chnages are permanent.


<br/>

### 11. SDLC Lifecycle
+ Requirement Gathering
+ Design
+ Implementation
+ Testing
+ Deployment
+ Maintanance

id: 5d668f081b4345448a1f7ea23fe97148
parent_id: 75c3238280c340a39e3a72e9053c2cb9
created_time: 2020-02-24T22:48:59.521Z
updated_time: 2020-02-25T01:23:04.116Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 30.32200000
longitude: 78.03000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2020-02-24T22:48:59.521Z
user_updated_time: 2020-02-25T01:23:04.116Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
type_: 1