id: 6d376e0388a246408ca71168c0678b12
parent_id: 
item_type: 1
item_id: 098084bfa08a4b568a521860471b9a9b
item_updated_time: 1586414151326
title_diff: "@@ -0,0 +1,79 @@\n+In Machine Learning, gender detection is the task of image classification where\n"
body_diff: "@@ -0,0 +1,1552 @@\n+In Machine Learning, gender detection is the task of image classification where the model predicts what an image represents. The task in Image Classification is to predict a single label (or adistribution over labels as shown here to indicate our confidence) for a given image. An image classification model is trained to recognize various classes of images. For example, a model might be trained to recognize photos representing genders: Male or Female.%0A%0AAfter gender detection Text label from the images will be detected. Text detection detects and extracts text from any image. For example, a photograph might contain a street sign or traffic sign. This helps in %0Agetting more information from image.%0A%0ATwo different models will be used, one for image gender detection from image and second for detection text label from the image. The models will be trained on same dataset. After training the test dataset will be used to get the accuracy of the model.%0A%0A%0A%0APreprocessing is the set of processes,  applied on Images to get them ready for Training and Testing purpose. It includes importing & labeling image then applying RGB to Grayscale Convesion and image resizing. %0A%0AImage is resized for reducing the number of pixels in an image and also to make all the image of same size.%0A%0AConversion form 3-Layered RGB image to 1-Layer Grayscale is required to reduce the image complexity and assist the machine to learn better%0A%0AThe image dataset collected does not have label on it, we need to add the labels. The name attribute is taken to be added as label.\n"
metadata_diff: {"new":{"id":"098084bfa08a4b568a521860471b9a9b","parent_id":"f01b9f4dcb3d447d810b84781d13189a","latitude":"23.34260000","longitude":"85.30990000","altitude":"0.0000","author":"","source_url":"","is_todo":0,"todo_due":0,"todo_completed":0,"source":"joplin-desktop","source_application":"net.cozic.joplin-desktop","application_data":"","order":0,"markup_language":1,"is_shared":0},"deleted":[]}
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
updated_time: 2020-04-09T06:36:08.987Z
created_time: 2020-04-09T06:36:08.987Z
type_: 13