Unit.1

- [1. Introduction](#1-introduction)
  - [1.1 Goal of SPM](#11-goal-of-spm)
  - [1.2 Need of SPM](#12-need-of-spm)
- [2. Importance of SPM](#2-importance-of-spm)
- [3. Software project vs. Other projects](#3-software-project-vs-other-projects)
  - [3.1  Software project](#31-software-project)
  - [3.2 Characteristic of Project](#32-characteristic-of-project)
  - [3.3 Software Project Manager](#33-software-project-manager)
- [4. Software Development Process](#4-software-development-process)
- [5. Project Planning, Monitoring and Controlling](#5-project-planning-monitoring-and-controlling)
  - [5.1 Project Planning](#51-project-planning)
  - [5.2 Project Monitoring & Controlling](#52-project-monitoring--controlling)
- [6. Software Management activitie](#6-software-management-activitie)
  - [6.1 Proejct Planning](#61-proejct-planning)
  - [6.2 Scope Management](#62-scope-management)
  - [6.3 Project Estimation](#63-project-estimation)
    - [6.3.1 Software Size Estimation](#631-software-size-estimation)
    - [6.3.2 Effort Estimation](#632-effort-estimation)
    - [6.3.3 Time Estimation](#633-time-estimation)
    - [6.3.4 Cost Estimation](#634-cost-estimation)
    - [6.3.5 Proejct Estimation Techinques](#635-proejct-estimation-techinques)
      - [6.3.5.1 Decomposition Model](#6351-decomposition-model)
      - [6.3.5.2 Empirical Estimation Technique](#6352-empirical-estimation-technique)
  - [6.4 Project Scheduling](#64-project-scheduling)
  - [6.5 Project Resource Management](#65-project-resource-management)
  - [6.6 Project Risk Management](#66-project-risk-management)
    - [6.6.1 Risk manangement proecess](#661-risk-manangement-proecess)
  - [6.7 Project Exection & Monitoring](#67-project-exection--monitoring)
  - [6.8 Project Communication Management](#68-project-communication-management)
  - [6.9 Project Configuration Management](#69-project-configuration-management)
- [7. Project Management Tool](#7-project-management-tool)


<br/>

### 1. Introduction
+ Discipline of organizing and managing resource
+ To complete project in defined
  + Scope
  + Qulality
  + Time and 
  + Cost constraint

<br/>

#### 1.1 Goal of SPM
+ To understand, plan, measure and control the project.
+ Suych that it is delivered on time and in budget.
+ Involves:
  + Requirement gathering
  + Managing risk
  + Monitoring
  + Controlling process &
  + Follow a software development process.
+ Reuirements:
  + Trained and experience software engineers
  + Complex and strict engineering principles.

<br/>

#### 1.2 Need of SPM
+ Development is highly unpridectible, only 10% project gets delived on time.
+ Management has a greater effect on sucees or failure.
+ Too ofter there are too much scrap and rework. 
+ Entire process is very immature and not enough to reuse.

<br/>

### 2. Importance of SPM
+ It can dramatically improve the productivity of any project.
+ There are variety of Project management software available for use, all offer the following features:
  1. `Scheduling`
        + On of the most critical tools required.
        + The project can be scheduled by using its information
        + Like assiging indivual task required to complete project, resorces, etc.
  2. `Resource Allocation`
        + Resource includes `people`, `equipment`  and `material`
        + The proper assignment is required.
  3. `Cost control & budjet management`
        + 
  4. `Quality Control`
       + Meeting the requirement of project.
       + It is set of activities planned at beginning of project that help acheive quality.
       + These are set by project manager and the company delivering the project.
  5. `Tracking Progress`
       + Monitoring `Scope-Time-Cost` baseline.
       + Task must be completed on time.
       + The critical completion path determines the project's finish date.
       + By knowing the critical path & resouces assinged finish date can be determined.
  6. `Report Generation`
       + Report about
         + Completion of work
         + Use of resources
         + Cost Expanded
         + Quality of work
         + The forecast
       + Gives better picture of progress of project.
       + Type of reports
         + Status
         + Progess
         + Varaince
         + Trend 

<br/>

### 3. Software project vs. Other projects
+ Many of general project management techniques can be applid to SPM.
+ But products of software project have certain characteristics that make them different.
+ One way of preceiving is as process of making visible that which is invisible.
+ Characteristics:
  1. `Invisiblity`
     + Physcial project can be seen while in construction
     +  but progress in software develeopment not visible immidiately.
  2. `Complexity`
     + SProject contains more complexity than others. 
  3. `Flexibility`
     + Much more flexibly.
     + Ease of change is on of the strength of Software projects.

<br/>

#### 3.1  Software project
+ It is the complete procdeure of of software development
+ Starts from requirement gathering and carrying out necessary steps to acheive a software product in a specif time.

<br/>

#### 3.2 Characteristic of Project
+ Unique and Distinct goal.
+ Comes with start and end time.
+ Ends when the goal is acheived.
+ Needs adequate resources in terms of time, people, equipment, finance.

<br/>

#### 3.3 Software Project Manager
+ A person who undertakes the responsibility of completing software project.
+ Knows all phases of SDLC.
+ may never directly involved in prodcing end product but controls and managers the activities involved.
+ Responsibilities of SPM:
  + Act as a project leader
  + Manage human resource
  + Resk analysis at each phase
  + Liason with stakeholders
  + Sets up porject hierarchy

<br/>

### 4. Software Development Process
+ Process that is concerned with production aspect of software developemt
+ As opposed to the techincal aspect, such as software tools.
+ SDS exits primarily to support the management of SD.
+ Generally skewed towards addressing business concerns.
+ It can includes following processes:
  + `Interpoersonal Communication & Conflict resoluation`
  + `Risk Management`
  + `Requirement Management`
  + `Change Management`
  + `Software Configuration Management`
  + `Release Mamagement`
    + Data Management

<br/>

### 5. Project Planning, Monitoring and Controlling

#### 5.1 Project Planning
+ The process of planning is to identify the
  + Scope pf project
  + estimate the work involved &
  + Creation of a project schedule
+ It begins with requirement that define the software to develop.
+ Then developed to describe task need to complete that will lead to porject completion.

<br/>

#### 5.2 Project Monitoring & Controlling
+ Purpose is to keep the team and management up to date with project progress.
+ If project deviates from pla , the manager takes action to correct it.
+ It involves status meeting and control change to change the scope if required.

<br/>

### 6. Software Management activitie
+ Software Project management comprises of number of activities.
+ These activities may contains tasks such as scheduling, cost estimatmation, quality control, scope mnagement.
+ SPM activities includes:
  + `Project Planning`
  + `Scope Management`
  + `Project Etimation`
  + `Project Scheduling`
  + `Resource Management`
  + `Project Risk Management`
  + `Project Execution and Monritoring`
  + `Project Communication Management`

<br/>

#### 6.1 Proejct Planning
  > See 5.1
#### 6.2 Scope Management
+ It defines the scope of project.
+ Including all the avitities needed to perform to make a deliverable software product.
+ Essential, as it creates the boundary of project by clearly specifying
  + What would be done &
  + What would not  be done.
  + And dividing the project into smaller parts.
+ Helps in avoiding cost and time overrun.
+ It is necessary to define, verify and control the project.

<br/>

#### 6.3 Project Estimation
+ It is the process of estimating various measures that is required to manage and control the software project.
+ It increases efficiney and effectiveness of project management.
+ It Includes:
  + Software Size estimation
  + Effort Estimation
  + Time Estimation
  + Cost Estimation

<br/>

#### 6.3.1 Software Size Estimation
+ Software size can be estimated in either KLOC(Kilo Line of Code) or
+ By calculating th Number of Function points in software.
+ Lines of code depends on coding practices.
+ Function points may very with user or project requirement.

<br/>

#### 6.3.2 Effort Estimation
+ It is the estimation of `man-hour` required to complete the project.
+ It is done by project managers for each individual.
+ For this estimation software size should be known.

<br/>

#### 6.3.3 Time Estimation
+ Once effort estimation is complete, time required to complete a software can be determined.
+ Software tasks are divided into smaller task and are scheduled on dat-to day basis or in calander months.
+ The sum of time reuired to complete all tasks in hour/days is the total time invested in proejct.

<br/>

#### 6.3.4 Cost Estimation
+ Most difficult if all estimation.
+ Following measures are required to esitmate the cost:
  + Size of software
  + Software qulaity
  + Hardware
  + Additional software or tools, licenses
  + Skilled personnel
  + Travel involved
  + Communication
  + Training and support

<br/>

#### 6.3.5 Proejct Estimation Techinques
+ Project manager can estimate the listed factors using two broadly recognized techiniqures:
  1. Decomposition Model
     + Line of Code Estimation
     + Function Point Estimation
  2. Empirical Estimation Techniques
     + Putnam Model
     + COCOMO

#### 6.3.5.1 Decomposition Model
+ It assumes that software as the product of various composition
+ Two main methods:
  + `Line of Code` Estimation
    + Based on number of lines of code present in software
  + `Function Points` Estimation
    + Bases on number of function points presnet in software

#### 6.3.5.2 Empirical Estimation Technique
+ These are empirically derived formulae fo make estmation.
+ These formulae are based on LOC and FP's.
+ Types:
  + `Putnam Model`
    + Developed by Lawrence H. putnam based in frequency distribution.
    + It maps time and effort required with software size.
  + `COCOMO`
    + Made by Barry W. Boehm.
    + Stands for COnstructuve COst Model
    + It divides software project into three categorites of software:
      + Organic
      + Semi-detached
      + Embedded


<br/>

#### 6.4 Project Scheduling
+ It reffers to roadmap of all activities to be done.
+ With specified oprder and within time slot to each activity.
+ Manager manage which task are more important and must be fininshed first.
+ Management of tasks that lie out of critical path is hard.
+ It is neccessary to: 
  + Break down project tasks into smaller one
  + Find out various task and coorelate them.
  + Estimate the time frame required for each task.
  + Divide time into work unmits.
  + Calculate time required for the project to be fininshed.
  

<br/>

#### 6.5 Project Resource Management
+ Process of amanaging resource such as `people` , `equipment` and `material`
+ The resources are availabe in limited quantity.
+ The shortage of resourcs hamper the development of software.
+ It includes:
  + Defining propoer organization of project by creating a team
  + Assigning responsibilites to each team member
  + Determining resource required at a particular stage and availablity
  + Manage allocation and de-allocation of resource based on need & availablity.
  

<br/>

#### 6.6 Project Risk Management
+ Risk management involvws all activities pertaining to
  + identificatioon
  + analyzing &
  + making provision
+ for all those predictable and non-predicatble risks in the project.
+ It includes:
  + Experience Staff leaving & new staff coming in.
  + Change in organizational management.
  + Requirement change
  + Under-esatimation of time and resources
  + Technology, business & Environmental changes
#### 6.6.1 Risk manangement proecess
+ The activities invlolved in risk management process are:
  + `Identification`
    + Make note of possibe risk that may occur in project.
  + `Manage`
    + Analyze probabilty of occuring risk at various phases.
    + Make plan to avoid them.
    + Attempt to minimize.
  + `Monitor`
    + Closely monitor the earrly symptoms.
    + Monitor the effects of steps taken to mitigate risk.


<br/>

#### 6.7 Project Exection & Monitoring
+ In this stage, taks described in project plan phase is executed.
+ Execution needs monitoring to check wheter it is going according to plan or not.
+ Monitoring is the process of observation and checking for the probability of risk and taking measure to address those.
+ Measures Include:
  + `Active Monitoring`
    + All activities are montored day-today basis.
  + `Status Report`
    + Contains status of activities and tasks completed within a certain time.
    + Status can be `finished`, `pending` or `in progress`
  + `MileStone checklist`
    + Project are divided into phases.
    + Where each major task is performaed and milestone is reached.
    + The checklist is generated every few wekks and report the status of milestrones. 

<br/>

#### 6.8 Project Communication Management
+ Effective communiction is requires for a successfull project.
+ It brideges the gap between client and organization.
+ It includes the follwing steps:
  + `Planning`: Identification of stakeholders and mode of commuication
  + `Sharing` : Fouce on sharing corrected information with correct person on correct time
  + `Feedback` : Feedback from stakeholders are taken as input.
  + `Closure` : At the end of each phase in SDLC, the closure is announded to stakeholders.


<br/>

#### 6.9 Project Configuration Management
+ Process of tracking and contorlling the change in software in terms of
  + Requirement
  + Design
  + Function & Development
+ `Baseline`
  + A phase is baselined when all the activities pertaining to it are completed and well documenetd.
+ `Change Control`
  + Function of configurationm managenemt
  + Ensures all the chages are consistent as per rules and regulations.
  + Phases:
    + `Identification`
    + `Validation`
    + `Analysis`
    + `Control`
    + `Execution`
    + `Close report`

<br/>

### 7. Project Management Tool
+ Grant Chart
+ PERT (Program Evaluation & Review Technique)


id: 86f97886f8034828a5c39c1c73c9feb3
parent_id: 75c3238280c340a39e3a72e9053c2cb9
created_time: 2020-02-24T15:49:52.290Z
updated_time: 2020-02-25T01:22:14.854Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 30.32200000
longitude: 78.03000000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2020-02-24T15:49:52.290Z
user_updated_time: 2020-02-25T01:22:14.854Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
type_: 1