In Machine Learning, gender detection is the task of image classification where

In Machine Learning, gender detection is the task of image classification where the model predicts what an image represents. The task in Image Classification is to predict a single label (or adistribution over labels as shown here to indicate our confidence) for a given image. An image classification model is trained to recognize various classes of images. For example, a model might be trained to recognize photos representing genders: Male or Female.

After gender detection Text label from the images will be detected. Text detection detects and extracts text from any image. For example, a photograph might contain a street sign or traffic sign. This helps in 
getting more information from image.

Two different models will be used, one for image gender detection from image and second for detection text label from the image. The models will be trained on same dataset. After training the test dataset will be used to get the accuracy of the model.



Preprocessing is the set of processes,  applied on Images to get them ready for Training and Testing purpose. It includes importing & labeling image then applying RGB to Grayscale Convesion and image resizing. 

Image is resized for reducing the number of pixels in an image and also to make all the image of same size.

Conversion form 3-Layered RGB image to 1-Layer Grayscale is required to reduce the image complexity and assist the machine to learn better

The image dataset collected does not have label on it, we need to add the labels. The name attribute is taken to be added as label.




The process of detecting features from the image is perfromed by using Convolutional Neural Network(CNN) algorithm. Since the algorithm uses Deep learning, this is able to perform quite well on similar tasks.


CNN is a supuervised machine learning algorithm. It is a feed forwarf artificial neural network that uses  perceptrons to apply image processing, natural language processing and other kinds of cognitive tasks.
Generally CNN has 4 Layers:
Convolutional
ReLU Layer
Pooling
Fully Connected Layer

id: 098084bfa08a4b568a521860471b9a9b
parent_id: f01b9f4dcb3d447d810b84781d13189a
created_time: 2020-04-09T06:26:22.687Z
updated_time: 2020-04-09T06:41:55.984Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 23.34260000
longitude: 85.30990000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2020-04-09T06:26:22.687Z
user_updated_time: 2020-04-09T06:41:55.984Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
type_: 1