Unit 1. Remote Sensing

|Unit 1.|Remote Sensing|
|-|-|
| Raushan|21/02/2020 16:07|
* * *

- [1.1 Remote Sensing](#11-remote-sensing)
- [1.2 Elements of remote sensing:](#12-elements-of-remote-sensing)
  - [1.2.1. Energy source or Illumination](#121-energy-source-or-illumination)
  - [1.2.2 Radiation and the Atmosphere](#122-radiation-and-the-atmosphere)
  - [1.2.3 Interaction with target](#123-interaction-with-target)
  - [1.2.4 Recording of energy bu the senesor](#124-recording-of-energy-bu-the-senesor)
  - [1.2.5 Transmission, Reception and Processing](#125-transmission-reception-and-processing)
  - [1.2.6 Interpretation and Analysis](#126-interpretation-and-analysis)
  - [1.2.7 Application](#127-application)
- [1.3 Electromagenatic Radiation](#13-electromagenatic-radiation)
- [1.4 Electromagenatic Spectrum](#14-electromagenatic-spectrum)
- [1.5 Interaction of radiation/energy with Atmosphere](#15-interaction-of-radiationenergy-with-atmosphere)
  - [1.5.1 Scattering](#151-scattering)
      - [1.5.1.1 Rayleigh Scattering](#1511-rayleigh-scattering)
      - [1.5.1.2 Mie Scattering](#1512-mie-scattering)
      - [1.5.1.2 Nonselective Scattering](#1512-nonselective-scattering)
  - [1.5.2 Absorption](#152-absorption)
- [1.6 Atmospheric Windows](#16-atmospheric-windows)
- [1.7 Interaction of radiation/energy with target/surface](#17-interaction-of-radiationenergy-with-targetsurface)
    - [1.7.1 Reflection(specular & diffuse)](#171-reflectionspecular--diffuse)
  - [1.8 Passive vs. Active Sensors](#18-passive-vs-active-sensors)

<br/>

### 1.1 Remote Sensing
+ The science of acquiring information about earth without actually being in contact with it.
+ Done by sensing and recording reflected or emitted energy.
+ Then processing analyzing and applying that information.

<br/>

### 1.2 Elements of remote sensing:
1. Energy source or Illumination
2. Radiation and the atmosphere
3. Interaction with target
4. Recording of energy by sensor
5. Transmission, Reception, and Processing
6. Interpolation and Analysis
7. Application

<br/>

#### 1.2.1. Energy source or Illumination
+ A energy source that illuminates or
+ Provides electromagnetic energy to the target of interest.


#### 1.2.2 Radiation and the Atmosphere
+ The interaction between the energy source and atmosphere which takes place when:
    + The energy travels from the source to target 
    + And when it travels from the target to the sensor.

#### 1.2.3 Interaction with target
+ The interaction that takes place with the target, after the energy source interacts with atmosphere.
+ The intercation depends upon the properties of both target and the radiation.

#### 1.2.4 Recording of energy bu the senesor
+ The energy scattered or emitted by the target after interaction is recorded.
+ The recording is done by remote sensor to record the electromagenatic radiation.

#### 1.2.5 Transmission, Reception and Processing
+ The energy recorded by the sesor is transmitted to a receiver station.
+ Transmission is ofter done in electronic form.
+ At receiving station the data is processed into an image (hardcopy and/or digital).

#### 1.2.6 Interpretation and Analysis
+ The processed image is interpreted, visually and/or digitally
+ and the information about the object is extracted through analysis.

#### 1.2.7 Application
+ The extracted information is used to better understand the object or
+ To assist in solving a particular problem.

<br/>



### 1.3 Electromagenatic Radiation
+ The energy that illuminates the target is in the form of electromagenatic radiation.
+ All electromagenatic radiation behave in a predicatable way according to the basis of wave theory.
+ Electromagenatic radiation consists of:
    + An **electrical field**,  that varies in magnitude in direction perpendicular to dircetion of travel.
    + A **magenatic field**
    + Both these field travels at the speed of light `c`
+ Main characteristics of electromagentic radiation are:
    + Wavelength : The length of one wave cycle. `m (meters)`
    + Frequency : The number of cycles of wave passing a point per unit of time. `Hz (heryz)`
    + realtion: `c = λv`  λ= wavelength(m), v= frequency(Hz), c=3x10^8 ms
    
<br/>

### 1.4 Electromagenatic Spectrum
+ It is the range of frequencies of electromagenatic radiation and their respective wavelength.
+ It ranges from shorter (gamma & x-rays) to longer wavelength(microwave and radio wave)
+ The regions that are useful for remote sensing are:
|Type of radiation| Wavelength Range|
|-|-|
|Ultravoilet|400 nm - 1 nm|
|Visible| 750 nm - 400 nm|
|Infrared| 2.5 μm - 750 nm|
|Microwaves| 25 μm - 2.5 μm|


<br/>

### 1.5 Interaction of radiation/energy with Atmosphere
+ Before reaching to the earth's surface, the radiation travels through earths's atmosphere.
+ Particles and gases present in atmosphere can affect the incoming light and radiation.
+ There effects are cause by the mechanisms of:
    + Sacttering
    + Absorption

<br/>

#### 1.5.1 Scattering
+ Scattering is the redirection of electromagnetic radiation from its original path.
+ It is caused by the particals or large gas molecules present in amtosphere.
+ The extent of radiation depends upon factors such as:
    + Wavelength of radiation
    + Abundance of particles and gases
    + Distance that radiation travels through atmosphere
+ Types of scattering: (3)
    + Rayleigh Scattering
    + Mie Scattering
    + Nonselective Scattering

###### 1.5.1.1 Rayleigh Scattering
+ It occurs when particles are very small compared to the waveleght of radiation.
+ These could be small specks of dust or nitrogen and oxygen.
+ In this scattering, the shorter wavelength of radiation are scattered much more than longer wavelength.
+ Dominant in upper atmosphere  and causes the sky to appear blue during day.

###### 1.5.1.2 Mie Scattering
+ It occurs when particles are just about same size as the waveleght of radiation.
+ Dust, pollen, smoke, water vapours are common particles that causes this scattering.
+ It effects the longer wavelength radiation.
+ Occurs mostly in lower atmosphere.

###### 1.5.1.2 Nonselective Scattering
+ This occurs when the particles are much longer than the wavelength of radiation.
+ Water droplets, larger dust particles.
+ It scatters shorter as well as longer wavelength particles about equallu.
+ Causes fog and cloud to appear white (blue+green+red=white).

<br/>

#### 1.5.2 Absorption
+ The phenomena, causes the molecules present in atmosphere to absorb energy at various wavelength.
+ Main atmospheric constituents that absorbs radiations are:
    + Ozone
    + Carbon dioxide
    + Water Vapour
+ Ozone
    + Ozone absobs harmful ultravoilet radiation from sun.
    + The radiation is harmful for our skin and causes various diseases/
+ Carbon dioxide:
    + It is also refferd as greenhouse gas.
    + It absorbs radiation strongly in far infrared potion.
    + It serves to trap thermal heat inside atomsphere, which keeps the earth warm.
+ Water Vapour:
    + It abosrbs radiation in longwave infrared and shortwave microwave region.
    + It varies from place to place according to the presence of water vapour.
    
<br/>

### 1.6 Atmospheric Windows
+ The areas of spectrum which are not severly influenced by the atmospheric absoption are useful for remote sensing.
+ These areas of electromagenatic sperctrum are called `atmospheric windows`.
+ Atmospheric Windows:
    + Visible portion of spectrum
    + Heat energy emmited by earth around 10μm (IR region)
    + Microwave region beyound 1mm.
    + Uv region

### 1.7 Interaction of radiation/energy with target/surface
+ Radiation not absorbed or scattered in atmosphere can interact with earth's surface.
+ The proportion of these interaction depends upon:
    + Wavelength of energy 
    + The material and
    + The condition of feature

+ There are three forms of interaction:
    + `Absorption` : Radiation absorbed into target.
    + `Transmission` : Occurs when  radiation passes through the object.
    + `Reflection` : Occurs when the radiation bouses back off the target and is redirected.
+ Reflection is most important interaction that helps in remote sensing.

##### 1.7.1 Reflection(specular & diffuse)
+ Two types of reflection: 
    1. `Specular reflection`
        + When the surface is smooth we get specular(mirror-like) reflection.
        + Here almost all of energy is directed away from surface in a single direction.
    2. `Diffuse reflection`
        + It occurs when the surface is rough.
        + The energy is reflected ununiformally in all directions.
+ The type of reflection depends upon:
    + The particle size
    + Wavelength if radiation

<br/>

#### 1.8 Passive vs. Active Sensors

|Passive sensors | Active sensors|
|-|-|
|Measure energy that is naturally available|Provide their own energy source for illumination|
|Can take measurment only, when natural energy source is available | Can take measurement at anytime or season|
|Energy provided in large amount by sources such as sun| Requires generation of fairly large amount of energy|
|Eg.: |Eg.: Synthetic Aperture Radar (SAR).



    

id: e689842feea2438aabe017a3b2af2387
parent_id: 518c6219f58b4b0d9ea60f9d47a31fb2
created_time: 2020-02-21T09:54:00.233Z
updated_time: 2020-02-22T02:18:00.760Z
is_conflict: 0
latitude: 28.63310000
longitude: 77.22070000
altitude: 0.0000
author: 
source_url: 
is_todo: 0
todo_due: 0
todo_completed: 0
source: joplin-desktop
source_application: net.cozic.joplin-desktop
application_data: 
order: 0
user_created_time: 2020-02-21T09:54:00.233Z
user_updated_time: 2020-02-22T02:18:00.760Z
encryption_cipher_text: 
encryption_applied: 0
markup_language: 1
is_shared: 0
type_: 1